    Multi Player Micropolis for X11 is now available from DUX Software!

DESCRIPTION:
	Micropolis, the original award winning city simulation game from
Maxis Software, now runs on powerful Unix workstations with X11!  DUX's
implementation of Micropolis for Unix was awarded product of the year 1992
by Unix World in the January 1993 issue, and reviewed in the April 1993
issue.  Now it's souped up, works with standard X11 servers, and even
supports networked multi user collaboration!  Multi Player Micropolis is
designed to be a fun cooperative educational experience!

	Micropolis is a colorful animated interactive system simulation
game, providing a set of rules and tools for planning and building a
complex dynamic simulated city.  Several people on different X11
workstations can participate in the same city, cooperating and
coordinating their actions across the network.

	Working together, you can zone land use, hook up the power grid,
build roads, bridges, parks and stadiums, raise taxes, and even summon
disasters, causing the city to grow and thrive, or crumble and die.  It's
a creative, entertaining way to develop your political skills!

REQUIREMENTS:
	Micropolis runs on Silicon Graphics Irix, SPARC SunOS, and other
Unix workstations.  You can play it locally or over the network on most 8
bit color or monochrome X11 displays, like NCD X terminals.  And you can
hear it on standard sound devices, and NCD's NetAudio server.

OPTIONS:
	Micropolis supports but doesn't require the X11 shared memory and
shaped window extensions, and a local sound device or NetAudio server.
And you can turn off the sound so your boss doesn't know you're playing!

FEATURES:
	Multi Player Micropolis for X11 sports the Motif look and feel,
implemented using the efficient TCL/Tk toolkit.  It features multiple
city editors and maps with overlays, fast colorful animation, engaging
sound effects, easy to use pie menus and direct manipulation interaction,
simultaneous multi player editing, communication and annotation
facilities, and voting dialogs for group decision making.  It includes
eight challenging scenarios and a library of interesting cities.

AVAILABILITY:
	Multi Player Micropolis is available directly from DUX Software, and
via anonymous ftp from ftp.uu.net (192.48.96.9), in the directory
"vendor/dux/Micropolis".  You may freely copy it, and play the fully
functional game in "demo mode" on one display without a license, but the
city melts every 5 minutes.  If you enjoy Micropolis, you can buy a license
over the phone by credit card, without leaving your seat!  A single
player license lets you save and restore your cities, and play for as
long as you like on one display; a multi player license lets you play
Micropolis with your friends over the net!

PRICING:
	Single Player Node Locked License:	 $49
	Multi Player Node Locked License:	 $89
	Single Player Floating License:		$129
	Multi Player Floating License:		$149

PLEASE CONTACT:
	DUX Software, 4906 El Camino Real, Suite 1, Los Altos, CA 94022
	Phone #: 1-800-543-4999 or 1-415-967-1500, FAX #: 1-415-967-5528
	Email: micropolis@dux.com

NOTICE:
	X11 Micropolis Copyright (C) 1993 by Electronic Arts.
Unix implementation and multi player user interface by Don Hopkins, DUX.
Based on the original Micropolis concept and design by Will Wright, MAXIS.
