This directory contains a collection of programs to demonstrate
the features of the Tk toolkit.  The programs are all scripts for
"wish", a windowing shell.  If wish has been installed in /usr/local
then you can invoke any of the programs in this directory just
by typing its file name to your command shell.  Otherwise invoke
wish on the file using the "-f" switch to wish, e.g. "wish -f hello".
The rest of this file contains a brief description of each program.
Files with names ending in ".tcl" are procedure packages used by one
or more of the demo programs;  they can't be used as programs by
themselves so they aren't described below.

hello -		Creates a single button;  if you click on it, a message
		is typed and the application terminates.

widget -	Contains a collection of demonstrations of the widgets
		currently available in the Tk library.  Most of the .tcl
		files are scripts for individual demos available through
		the "widget" program.

ixset -		A simple Tk-based wrapper for the "xset" program, which
		allows you to interactively query and set various X options
		such as mouse acceleration and bell volume.  Thanks to
		Pierre David for contributing this example.

rolodex -	A mock-up of a simple rolodex application.  It has much of
		the user interface for such an application but no back-end
		database.  This program was written in response to Tom
		LaStrange's toolkit benchmark challenge.

timer -		Displays a seconds timer with start and stop buttons.
		Control-c and control-q cause it to exit.

browse -	A simple directory browser.  Invoke it with and argument
		giving the name of the directory you'd like to browse.
		Double-click on files or subdirectories to browse them.
		Control-c and control-q cause the program to exit.

dialog -	Displays a simple dialog.  Click on any button and the
		application exits.

size -		Takes three arguments:  the name of an application, the
		name of a widget in that application, and the name of an
		integer-valued option for that widget.  Allows you to
		interactively resize the given option.  For example,
		start up the dialog demo, then type
		"size dialog .bot.middle -pady" for an example.

color -		Similar to "size", but modifies a color option.  Try
		"color dialog .bot.middle -bg" for an example.

tkSquare.c -	A very simple widget to provide an example of how to
		implement a new widget.  When building a new widget you
		may find it useful to start from this code.
